

# Chapter 03


## Exercises

1. Write a function that computes the number of elements in a list. To test it,
   ensure that it gives the same answers as the standard length function.

See MyLen.hs


2. Add a type signature for your function to your source file. To test it, load
   the source file into ghci again.

See MyLen.hs


3. Write a function that computes the mean of a list, i.e. the sum of all
   elements in the list divided by its length.
   (You may need to use the fromIntegral function to convert the length of the
   list from an integer into a floating point number.)

See ListMean.hs


4. Turn a list into a palindrome, i.e. it should read the same both backwards
   and forwards. For example, given the list [1,2,3], your function should
   return [1,2,3,3,2,1].

See Palindrome.hs


5. Write a function that determines whether its input list is a palindrome.

See Palindrome.hs


6. Create a function that sorts a list of lists based on the length of each
   sublist. (You may want to look at the sortBy function from the Data.List
   module.)

See ListSort.hs


7. Define a function that joins a list of lists together using a separator value.

```
-- file: ch03/Intersperse.hs
intersperse :: a -> [[a]] -> [a]
```

The separator should appear between elements of the list, but should not follow
the last element. Your function should behave as follows.

```
ghci> :load Intersperse
[1 of 1] Compiling Main       ( Intersperse.hs, interpreted )
Ok, modules loaded: Main.
ghci> intersperse ',' []
""
ghci> intersperse ',' ["foo"]
"foo"
ghci> intersperse ',' ["foo","bar","baz","quux"]
"foo,bar,baz,quux"
```
-- file: ch03/Intersperse.hs

See Intersperse.hs


8. Using the binary tree type that we defined earlier in this chapter, write a
   function that will determine the height of the tree. The height is the
   largest number of hops from the root to an Empty. For example, the tree Empty
   has height zero; Node "x" Empty Empty has height one; Node "x" Empty (Node "y"
   Empty Empty) has height two; and so on.

See MyTree.hs



9. Consider three two-dimensional points a, b, and c. If we look at the angle
   formed by the line segment from a to b and the line segment from b to c, it
   either turns left, turns right, or forms a straight line. Define a Direction
   data type that lets you represent these possibilities.

See Directions.hs


10. Write a function that calculates the turn made by three 2D points and
    returns a Direction.

See Directions.hs


11. Define a function that takes a list of 2D points and computes the direction
    of each successive triple. Given a list of points [a,b,c,d,e], it should
    begin by computing the turn made by [a,b,c], then the turn made by [b,c,d],
    then [c,d,e]. Your function should return a list of Direction.

See Directions.hs


12. Using the code from the preceding three exercises, implement Graham's scan
    algorithm for the convex hull of a set of 2D points. You can find good
    description of what a convex hull. is, and how the Graham scan algorithm should
    work, on Wikipedia.

See Directions.hs


