
# Chapter 04


## Exercises - block 1

1. Write your own “safe” definitions of the standard partial list functions,
   but make sure that yours never fail. As a hint, you might want to consider
   using the following types.

```
-- file: ch04/ch04.exercises.hs
safeHead :: [a] -> Maybe a
safeTail :: [a] -> Maybe [a]
safeLast :: [a] -> Maybe a
safeInit :: [a] -> Maybe [a]
```

See Ch04.hs


2. Write a function splitWith that acts similarly to words, but takes a
   predicate and a list of any type, and splits its input list on every element
   for which the predicate returns False.

```
-- file: ch04/ch04.exercises.hs
splitWith :: (a -> Bool) -> [a] -> [[a]]
```

See Ch04.hs


3. Using the command framework from the section called “A simple command line
   framework”, write a program that prints the first word of each line of its
   input.

See firstword.hs


4. Write a program that transposes the text in a file. For instance, it should
   convert "hello\nworld\n" to "hw\neo\nlr\nll\nod\n".

See transpose.hs


## Exercises - block 2

1. Use a fold (choosing the appropriate fold will make your code much simpler)
   to rewrite and improve upon the asInt function from the section called
   “Explicit recursion”.

```
-- file: ch04/ch04.exercises.hs
asInt_fold :: String -> Int
```

Your function should behave as follows.

```
ghci> asInt_fold "101"
101
ghci> asInt_fold "-31337"
-31337
ghci> asInt_fold "1798"
1798
```

Extend your function to handle the following kinds of exceptional conditions by
calling error.

```
ghci> asInt_fold ""
0
ghci> asInt_fold "-"
0
ghci> asInt_fold "-3"
-3
ghci> asInt_fold "2.7"
*** Exception: Char.digitToInt: not a digit '.'
ghci> asInt_fold "314159265358979323846"
564616105916946374
```


2. The asInt_fold function uses error, so its callers cannot handle errors.
   Rewrite it to fix this problem.

```
-- file: ch04/ch04.exercises.hs
type ErrorMessage = String
asInt_either :: String -> Either ErrorMessage Int
25 comments
ghci> asInt_either "33"
Right 33
ghci> asInt_either "foo"
Left "non-digit 'o'"
```


3. The Prelude function concat concatenates a list of lists into a single list,
   and has the following type.

```
-- file: ch04/ch04.exercises.hs
concat :: [[a]] -> [a]
```

Write your own definition of concat using foldr.


4. Write your own definition of the standard takeWhile function, first using
   explicit recursion, then foldr.


5. The Data.List module defines a function, groupBy, which has the following
   type.

```
-- file: ch04/ch04.exercises.hs
groupBy :: (a -> a -> Bool) -> [a] -> [[a]]
```

Use ghci to load the Data.List module and figure out what groupBy does, then
write your own implementation using a fold.


6. How many of the following Prelude functions can you rewrite using list
   folds?

any

cycle

words

unlines

For those functions where you can use either foldl' or foldr, which is more
appropriate in each case?

